In this project, the student will learn about crawling the internet and retrieving information and

will then implement a web scraper to fetch information related to the sale of vehicles on

Craigslist.org or a similar site. This will involve implementing an algorithm for retrieving the

correct information, parsing the correct significant statistics, sorting this information into easily

readable output, and finding outliers within different groups of similar vehicles. The

application should, as an end product, show a good potential vehicle for purchasing and

reselling for a profit.

The student will perform the following steps to complete the project.

  1. Learn about information retrieval: Having no prior experience with web crawling and
  
  information retrieval, the student will have to pick a language or languages that best suit
  
  the scope of the project and learn how to use the language in the appropriate manner.

  2. Retrieval/filtering: the student must determine the bounds of the retrieval and use his
  
  program to fetch the correct information on all vehicles. Results must filter out
  
  potential bad results such as $0 sale price or miscategorized postings.
  
  3. Sorting: after fetching statistics on individual sales of vehicles, the sales should be
  
  sorted according to vehicle and price.

  4. Selection: Determine an appropriate threshold for finding outliers in price and store the
  
  pertinent information on that particular outlier.

  5. Display/Menu: Provide an easily maneuverable menu system to provide the user with
  
  options such as: search for particular make/model, find best value, etc.
  
  6. Report/Documentation: Record significant results/findings and provide detailed
  
  documentation in regards to implementation and intricacies of the project.

Project Plan (120 hours)

  1. Preliminary Research (20 hours)

    • Research different methods of crawling different webpages, especially those without a
    
    • Find libraries/tools that can best be used to best aid in the implementation of the
    
    • Determine the algorithm and bounds for the vehicle information
    
    • Determine the appropriate threshold for picking a good vehicle

  2. Implementation (80 hours)
  
    • Write the menu system
    
    • Write the algorithm for grabbing vehicle sale information
    
    • Find valuable sales and present them in a simple way
    
  3. Documentation (10 hours)

    • Provide a detailed report on significant decisions made
    
    • Provide open source code in a github repository
    
    • Detail improvements that could be made and any incomplete functionality
    
    provided API
    
    project
